batch-web-spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/index.adoc, before:

= Batch Web Spring Boot Starter Reference Guide
:revnumber: {project-version}
:revdate: {commit-time}
:toc: left
:numbered: true

== What is batch-web-spring-boot-starter?

Java batch is becoming a hot topic in enterprise environments these days, but how do you do it the right way? The project batch-web-spring-boot-starter offers a best practice approach to modern batch architectures, answering the following questions:

* How do I actually deploy jobs?
* How do I start, stop and monitor them?
* How do I integrate them into my companies' infrastructure?
* How do I build job artifacts?

It builds on Spring Batch, Spring Boot and JSR-352.

You may want to switch to the Getting Started page. If you want to know about the possibilities for configuring the application, switch to Configuration options.

== Blog roll

Most information about this project will be covered in blog posts. You find them here:

https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2014/05/enterprise-ready-production-ready-java-batch-applications-powered-spring-boot/[Enterprise-ready production-ready Java batch applications powered by Spring Boot]

https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2014/11/spring-boot-starter-batch-web-1-3-0-released/[spring-boot-starter-batch-web 1.3.0 released]

https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2014/11/enterprise-java-batch-best-practice-architecture/[Enterprise Java Batch - A best practice architecture]

https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2018/06/batch-web-spring-boot-starter-2-0-1-released/[batch-web-spring-boot-starter 2.0.1 released]

== Getting Started

. Create a Spring Boot maven project. Take a look at https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-samples/batch-boot-simple/pom.xml[this] example, it's pretty much just using spring-boot-starter-parent as a parent und adding the Spring Boot build plugin. Then add the dependency to batch-web-spring-boot-starter like in the example. Check for the current version in the https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/releases[Release Notes].

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>de.codecentric</groupId>
	<artifactId>batch-web-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
	<version>{project-version}</version>
</dependency>
----

. If you have a database with the Spring Batch meta data tables and your business data, add the connection properties to the application.properties like in https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-samples/batch-boot-file-to-db/src/main/resources/application.properties[this example]. If you don't specify these properties you'll get an in-memory database for the Spring Batch meta data tables.
. Add a simple logback.xml for logging. Here's an https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-samples/batch-boot-file-to-db/src/main/resources/logback.xml[example] inheriting from our basic log configuration to support log file separation.
. Add a batch job. You may define it in XML and put it into META-INF/spring/batch/jobs (overridable via property batch.config.path-xml) or in JavaConfig and put it into the package spring.batch.jobs (overridable via property batch.config.package-javaconfig). Each XML file or class annotated with @Configuration in the specified locations will get its own child ApplicationContext. Third option is defining a JSR-352 style job in XML and adding it to META-INF/batch-jobs.
. Add an entry point to the application, a class with a main method invoking SpringApplication.run(...). Take a look at this https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-samples/batch-boot-simple/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/simple/Application.java[example].
. Build the application via maven package. Then start the application using java -jar xxx.jar.

Default port is 8080. Take a look at the JavaDoc of these controllers to get to know the endpoints for starting jobs etc.: https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/web/JobOperationsController.java[JobOperationsController] and https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/web/JobMonitoringController.java[JobMonitoringController].

== Configuration options

There are two ways to influence batch-web-spring-boot-starter's behaviour. The first way is to set certain properties, the second way is to add certain components to the ApplicationContext. Let's take a look at the available properties first. Note that these are only the properties of batch-web-spring-boot-starter, there are more properties from Spring Boot described in the Spring Boot reference documentation.

|===
|*Property name* |*Description* |*Default value*

|batch.config.path-xml
|Location in the classpath where Spring Batch job definitions in XML are picked up.
|/META-INF/spring/batch/jobs

|batch.config.package-javaconfig
|Package where Spring Batch job definitions in JavaConfig are picked up.
|spring.batch.jobs

|batch.default-protocol.enabled
|Whether the default job protocol printed into the log is activated.
|`true`

|batch.logfile-separation.enabled
|Whether writing one log file for each job execution is activated.
|`true`

|batch.joblog.path
|Path where the separate logfiles are stored. Can be used as `JOB_LOG_PATH` in logback configuration.
|

|batch.metrics.enabled
|Whether the transaction safe batch metrics framework is activated so that BatchMetrics may be injected and used.
|`false`

|batch.metrics.profiling.readprocesswrite.enabled
|Readers, Processors and Writers are profiled with RichGauges when set to true.
|`false`

|batch.task-executor.*
|Configure the used org.springframework.scheduling.concurrent.ThreadPoolTaskExecutor instance
|core-pool-size: 5 +
max-pool-size: Integer.MAX_VALUE +
queue-capacity: Integer.MAX_VALUE +

|batch.repository.isolation-level-for-create
|Database isolation level for creating job executions.
|Spring Batch’s default

|batch.repository.table-prefix
|Prefix for Spring Batch meta data tables.
|

|batch.web.operations.base
|Base URL for the operations endpoint.
|`/batch/operations`

|batch.web.monitoring.base
|Base URL for the monitoring endpoint.
|`/batch/monitoring`

|===

Now let’s take a look at the interfaces / abstract classes you may implement to add those implemented components to the ApplicationContext:

https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/configuration/ListenerProvider.java[ListenerProvider]

https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/metrics/MetricsOutputFormatter.java[MetricsOutputFormatter]

Example:
[source,java]
----
include::{sourcedir}/de/codecentric/batch/metrics/MetricsListener.java[tags=contains,indent=0]
----

https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/metrics/AbstractBatchMetricsAspect.java[AbstractBatchMetricsAspect]

https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/logging/JobLogFileNameCreator.java[JobLogFileNameCreator]


== Initscript Template

This is a simple example for an initscript template to control your Spring Boot batch application:

[source,shell]
----
#!/bin/sh
#
# Simple initscript for a Java application
#

# Verifies the status of the application
verify_status() {
  [...]
}

# Starts the application
start() {
  # First check if the application is already started
  verify_status
  # Start JVM
  java -jar /opt/batch/example-batch/example-batch.jar >> /var/log/example-batch.log 2>&1 &
}

# Stops the application
stop() {
  [...]
}

# Shows the application status on the console
status() {
  [...]
}

case "$1" in
  start)
    start
    ;;
  stop)
    stop
    ;;
  status)
    status
    ;;
  restart)
    stop
    start
    ;;
  *)
    echo "Usage: $0 {start|stop|restart|status}"
    exit 1
esac

exit 0
----

== RPM

The following code snippet may help you to configure the https://www.mojohaus.org/rpm-maven-plugin/[Maven RPM Plugin], which creates an RPM during the build process for you. In this example the RPM will be created as an attached artifact. For more information see the https://www.mojohaus.org/rpm-maven-plugin/usage.html[documentation] of the plugin.

[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
        <groupId>org.codehaus.mojo</groupId>
        <artifactId>rpm-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>2.1-alpha-4</version>
        <extensions>true</extensions>
        <executions>
                <execution>
                        <phase>package</phase>
                        <goals>
                                <goal>attached-rpm</goal>
                        </goals>
                </execution>
        </executions>
        <configuration>
                <name>${project.name}</name>
                <version>${project.version}</version>
                <copyright>2014,codecentric</copyright>
                <distribution>sles11</distribution>
                <group>Application/codecentric</group>
                <packager>jenkins</packager>
                <changelogFile>src/changelog</changelogFile>
                <vendor>sles</vendor>
                <defineStatements>
                        <defineStatement>_unpackaged_files_terminate_build 0</defineStatement>
                </defineStatements>
                <mappings>
                        <mapping>
                                <directory>/opt/batch/${project.name}/</directory>
                                <filemode>755</filemode>
                                <username>batch</username>
                                <groupname>batch</groupname>
                                <sources>
                                        <source>
                                                <destination>${project.name}.jar</destination>
                                                <location>target/${project.artifactId}-${project.version}.jar</location>
                                        </source>
                                </sources>
                        </mapping>
                        <mapping>
                                <directory>/etc/init.d/</directory>
                                <username>root</username>
                                <groupname>root</groupname>
                                <sources>
                                        <source>
                                                <destination>${project.name}</destination>
                                                <location>target/classes/initscript-template</location>
                                        </source>
                                </sources>
                        </mapping>
                </mappings>
                <preremoveScriptlet>
                        <script><![CDATA[ if [ "$1" = "0" ]; then /etc/init.d/example-batch stop; fi]]></script>
                </preremoveScriptlet>
        </configuration>
</plugin>
----

== Metrics

In this Starter there are a lot of metrics that will be written during jobruns (see below).

=== Configuration

==== Enable Metrics in the Starter

[indent=0]
----
batch.metrics.enabled=true
----

=== Gauges
==== Job duration for a specific job name
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob, name=duration}
----
==== Step duration for a specific job name
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=duration}
----
==== Chunk duration/count for a specific job name
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=chunk.duration}
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=chunk.count}
----
==== Item duration/count for a specific job name
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=item.duration}
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=item.count}
----
==== Read/Process/Write methods
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=DummyItemReader.read.duration}
----
==== Custom
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=ExampleService.callExternalRemoteService.duration}
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=businesscounter}
----

== Migration from 1.x.x
=== Properties
Some properties have been renamed. This is the full mapping table.

|===
| *old* | *new*

| batch.config.path.xml
| batch.config.path-xml

| batch.config.package.javaconfig
| batch.config.package-javaconfig

| batch.defaultprotocol.enabled
| batch.default-protocol.enabled

| batch.logfileseparation.enabled
| batch.logfile-separation.enabled

| batch.repository.isolationlevelforcreate
| batch.repository.isolation-level-for-create

| batch.max.pool.size
| batch.task-executor.max-pool-size

| batch.batch.core.pool.size
| batch.task-executor.core-pool-size

| batch.queue.capacity
| batch.task-executor.queue-capacity

| batch.repository.tableprefix
| batch.repository.table-prefix
|===

=== Metrics
Metrics export is not done manually (implementing the Exporter interface) any more, since Spring Boot 2.x autoconfigures exporters for metrics. Take a look at the https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current-SNAPSHOT/reference/htmlsingle/#production-ready-metrics[documentation] of Spring Boot.

Commit message:

Custom ExecutionContextSerializer for job data de-/serialization.

batch-web-spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/index.adoc, after:

= Batch Web Spring Boot Starter Reference Guide
:revnumber: {project-version}
:revdate: {commit-time}
:toc: left
:numbered: true

== What is batch-web-spring-boot-starter?

Java batch is becoming a hot topic in enterprise environments these days, but how do you do it the right way? The project batch-web-spring-boot-starter offers a best practice approach to modern batch architectures, answering the following questions:

* How do I actually deploy jobs?
* How do I start, stop and monitor them?
* How do I integrate them into my companies' infrastructure?
* How do I build job artifacts?

It builds on Spring Batch, Spring Boot and JSR-352.

You may want to switch to the Getting Started page. If you want to know about the possibilities for configuring the application, switch to Configuration options.

== Blog roll

Most information about this project will be covered in blog posts. You find them here:

https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2014/05/enterprise-ready-production-ready-java-batch-applications-powered-spring-boot/[Enterprise-ready production-ready Java batch applications powered by Spring Boot]

https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2014/11/spring-boot-starter-batch-web-1-3-0-released/[spring-boot-starter-batch-web 1.3.0 released]

https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2014/11/enterprise-java-batch-best-practice-architecture/[Enterprise Java Batch - A best practice architecture]

https://blog.codecentric.de/en/2018/06/batch-web-spring-boot-starter-2-0-1-released/[batch-web-spring-boot-starter 2.0.1 released]

== Getting Started

. Create a Spring Boot maven project. Take a look at https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-samples/batch-boot-simple/pom.xml[this] example, it's pretty much just using spring-boot-starter-parent as a parent und adding the Spring Boot build plugin. Then add the dependency to batch-web-spring-boot-starter like in the example. Check for the current version in the https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/releases[Release Notes].

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
	<groupId>de.codecentric</groupId>
	<artifactId>batch-web-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
	<version>{project-version}</version>
</dependency>
----

. If you have a database with the Spring Batch meta data tables and your business data, add the connection properties to the application.properties like in https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-samples/batch-boot-file-to-db/src/main/resources/application.properties[this example]. If you don't specify these properties you'll get an in-memory database for the Spring Batch meta data tables.
. Add a simple logback.xml for logging. Here's an https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-samples/batch-boot-file-to-db/src/main/resources/logback.xml[example] inheriting from our basic log configuration to support log file separation.
. Add a batch job. You may define it in XML and put it into META-INF/spring/batch/jobs (overridable via property batch.config.path-xml) or in JavaConfig and put it into the package spring.batch.jobs (overridable via property batch.config.package-javaconfig). Each XML file or class annotated with @Configuration in the specified locations will get its own child ApplicationContext. Third option is defining a JSR-352 style job in XML and adding it to META-INF/batch-jobs.
. Add an entry point to the application, a class with a main method invoking SpringApplication.run(...). Take a look at this https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-samples/batch-boot-simple/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/simple/Application.java[example].
. Build the application via maven package. Then start the application using java -jar xxx.jar.

Default port is 8080. Take a look at the JavaDoc of these controllers to get to know the endpoints for starting jobs etc.: https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/web/JobOperationsController.java[JobOperationsController] and https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/web/JobMonitoringController.java[JobMonitoringController].

== Configuration options

There are two ways to influence batch-web-spring-boot-starter's behaviour. The first way is to set certain properties, the second way is to add certain components to the ApplicationContext. Let's take a look at the available properties first. Note that these are only the properties of batch-web-spring-boot-starter, there are more properties from Spring Boot described in the Spring Boot reference documentation.

|===
|*Property name* |*Description* |*Default value*

|batch.config.path-xml
|Location in the classpath where Spring Batch job definitions in XML are picked up.
|/META-INF/spring/batch/jobs

|batch.config.package-javaconfig
|Package where Spring Batch job definitions in JavaConfig are picked up.
|spring.batch.jobs

|batch.default-protocol.enabled
|Whether the default job protocol printed into the log is activated.
|`true`

|batch.logfile-separation.enabled
|Whether writing one log file for each job execution is activated.
|`true`

|batch.joblog.path
|Path where the separate logfiles are stored. Can be used as `JOB_LOG_PATH` in logback configuration.
|

|batch.metrics.enabled
|Whether the transaction safe batch metrics framework is activated so that BatchMetrics may be injected and used.
|`false`

|batch.metrics.profiling.readprocesswrite.enabled
|Readers, Processors and Writers are profiled with RichGauges when set to true.
|`false`

|batch.task-executor.*
|Configure the used org.springframework.scheduling.concurrent.ThreadPoolTaskExecutor instance
|core-pool-size: 5 +
max-pool-size: Integer.MAX_VALUE +
queue-capacity: Integer.MAX_VALUE +

|batch.repository.isolation-level-for-create
|Database isolation level for creating job executions.
|Spring Batch’s default

|batch.repository.table-prefix
|Prefix for Spring Batch meta data tables.
|

|batch.web.operations.base
|Base URL for the operations endpoint.
|`/batch/operations`

|batch.web.monitoring.base
|Base URL for the monitoring endpoint.
|`/batch/monitoring`

|===

Now let’s take a look at the interfaces / abstract classes you may implement to add those implemented components to the ApplicationContext:

https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/configuration/ListenerProvider.java[ListenerProvider]

https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/metrics/MetricsOutputFormatter.java[MetricsOutputFormatter], Example:
https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/metrics/MetricsListener.java[MetricsListener]

https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/metrics/AbstractBatchMetricsAspect.java[AbstractBatchMetricsAspect]

https://github.com/codecentric/spring-boot-starter-batch-web/blob/master/batch-web-spring-boot-autoconfigure/src/main/java/de/codecentric/batch/logging/JobLogFileNameCreator.java[JobLogFileNameCreator]

=== Custom job data de-/serialization
You also be able to use your own custom database serializer for job repository. You just have to add a bean of type ExecutionContextSerializer into the application context. See example in batch-boot-file-to-db (DataSourceConfiguration.java).

== Initscript Template

This is a simple example for an initscript template to control your Spring Boot batch application:

[source,shell]
----
#!/bin/sh
#
# Simple initscript for a Java application
#

# Verifies the status of the application
verify_status() {
  [...]
}

# Starts the application
start() {
  # First check if the application is already started
  verify_status
  # Start JVM
  java -jar /opt/batch/example-batch/example-batch.jar >> /var/log/example-batch.log 2>&1 &
}

# Stops the application
stop() {
  [...]
}

# Shows the application status on the console
status() {
  [...]
}

case "$1" in
  start)
    start
    ;;
  stop)
    stop
    ;;
  status)
    status
    ;;
  restart)
    stop
    start
    ;;
  *)
    echo "Usage: $0 {start|stop|restart|status}"
    exit 1
esac

exit 0
----

== RPM

The following code snippet may help you to configure the https://www.mojohaus.org/rpm-maven-plugin/[Maven RPM Plugin], which creates an RPM during the build process for you. In this example the RPM will be created as an attached artifact. For more information see the https://www.mojohaus.org/rpm-maven-plugin/usage.html[documentation] of the plugin.

[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
        <groupId>org.codehaus.mojo</groupId>
        <artifactId>rpm-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>2.1-alpha-4</version>
        <extensions>true</extensions>
        <executions>
                <execution>
                        <phase>package</phase>
                        <goals>
                                <goal>attached-rpm</goal>
                        </goals>
                </execution>
        </executions>
        <configuration>
                <name>${project.name}</name>
                <version>${project.version}</version>
                <copyright>2014,codecentric</copyright>
                <distribution>sles11</distribution>
                <group>Application/codecentric</group>
                <packager>jenkins</packager>
                <changelogFile>src/changelog</changelogFile>
                <vendor>sles</vendor>
                <defineStatements>
                        <defineStatement>_unpackaged_files_terminate_build 0</defineStatement>
                </defineStatements>
                <mappings>
                        <mapping>
                                <directory>/opt/batch/${project.name}/</directory>
                                <filemode>755</filemode>
                                <username>batch</username>
                                <groupname>batch</groupname>
                                <sources>
                                        <source>
                                                <destination>${project.name}.jar</destination>
                                                <location>target/${project.artifactId}-${project.version}.jar</location>
                                        </source>
                                </sources>
                        </mapping>
                        <mapping>
                                <directory>/etc/init.d/</directory>
                                <username>root</username>
                                <groupname>root</groupname>
                                <sources>
                                        <source>
                                                <destination>${project.name}</destination>
                                                <location>target/classes/initscript-template</location>
                                        </source>
                                </sources>
                        </mapping>
                </mappings>
                <preremoveScriptlet>
                        <script><![CDATA[ if [ "$1" = "0" ]; then /etc/init.d/example-batch stop; fi]]></script>
                </preremoveScriptlet>
        </configuration>
</plugin>
----

== Metrics

In this Starter there are a lot of metrics that will be written during jobruns (see below).

=== Configuration

==== Enable Metrics in the Starter

[indent=0]
----
batch.metrics.enabled=true
----

=== Gauges
==== Job duration for a specific job name
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob, name=duration}
----
==== Step duration for a specific job name
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=duration}
----
==== Chunk duration/count for a specific job name
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=chunk.duration}
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=chunk.count}
----
==== Item duration/count for a specific job name
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=item.duration}
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=item.count}
----
==== Read/Process/Write methods
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=DummyItemReader.read.duration}
----
==== Custom
[indent=0]
----
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=ExampleService.callExternalRemoteService.duration}
name: batch.metrics, tags: {context=simpleJob.simpleStep, name=businesscounter}
----

== Migration from 1.x.x
=== Properties
Some properties have been renamed. This is the full mapping table.

|===
| *old* | *new*

| batch.config.path.xml
| batch.config.path-xml

| batch.config.package.javaconfig
| batch.config.package-javaconfig

| batch.defaultprotocol.enabled
| batch.default-protocol.enabled

| batch.logfileseparation.enabled
| batch.logfile-separation.enabled

| batch.repository.isolationlevelforcreate
| batch.repository.isolation-level-for-create

| batch.max.pool.size
| batch.task-executor.max-pool-size

| batch.batch.core.pool.size
| batch.task-executor.core-pool-size

| batch.queue.capacity
| batch.task-executor.queue-capacity

| batch.repository.tableprefix
| batch.repository.table-prefix
|===

=== Metrics
Metrics export is not done manually (implementing the Exporter interface) any more, since Spring Boot 2.x autoconfigures exporters for metrics. Take a look at the https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current-SNAPSHOT/reference/htmlsingle/#production-ready-metrics[documentation] of Spring Boot.
